The convening of this body gave rise to much dissatisfaction among the people of Texas.  They
had assumed that affairs were to go on as of old, and that the reintegration of the State was
to take place under the administration of Governor Murray, who, meanwhile, had taken it upon
himself, together with the Legislature, to authorize the election of delegates to a State Convention,
without restriction as to who should be entitled to vote.  Thus encouraged, the element but
lately in armed rebellion was now fully bent on restoring the State to the Union without any
intervention whatever of the Federal Government; but the advent of Hamilton put an end to such
illusions, since his proclamation promptly disfranchised the element in question, whose consequent
disappointment and chagrin were so great as to render this factor of the community almost uncontrollable.
The provisional Governor at once rescinded the edict of Governor Murray, prohibited the assembling
of his convention, and shortly after called, one himself, the delegates to which were to b
chosen by voters who could take the amnesty-oath.  The proclamation convening this assemblage
also announced the policy that would be pursued in governing the State until its affairs were
satisfactorily reorganized, defined in brief the course to be followed by the Judiciary, and
provided for the appointment, by the Governor, of county officials to succeed those known to
be disloyal.  As this action of Hamilton's disfranchised all who could not take the amnesty
oath, and of course deprived them of the offices, it met at once with pronounced and serious
opposition, and he quickly realized that he had on his hands an arduous task to protect the
colored people, particularly as in the transition state of society just after the close of
the war there prevailed much lawlessness, which vented itself chiefly on the freedmen.  It
was greatly feared that political rights were to be given those so recently in servitude, and
as it was generally believed that such enfranchisement would precipitate a race war unless
the freedmen were overawed and kept in a state of subjection, acts of intimidation were soon
reported from all parts of the State.

Hamilton, an able, determined, and fearless man, tried hard to curb this terrorism, but public
opinion being strong against him, he could accomplish little without military aid.  As department
commander, I was required, whenever called upon, to assist his government, and as these requisitions
for help became necessarily very frequent, the result was that shortly after he assumed his
duties, detachments of troops were stationed in nearly every county of the State.  By such
disposition of my forces fairly good order was maintained under the administration of Hamilton,
and all went well till the inauguration of J. W. Throckmorton, who, elected Governor in pursuance
of an authorization granted by the convention which Hamilton had called together, assumed the
duties of the office August 9, 1866.

One of Governor Throckmorton's first acts was to ask the withdrawal or non-interference of
the military.  This was not all granted, but under his ingenious persuasion President Johnson,
on the 13th of August, 1866, directed that the new State officials be entrusted with the unhampered
control of civil affairs, and this was more than enough to revive the bulldozing methods that
had characterized the beginning of Hamilton's administration.  Oppressive legislation in the
shape of certain apprentice and vagrant laws quickly followed, developing a policy of gross
injustice toward the colored people on the part of the courts, and a reign of lawlessness and
disorder ensued which, throughout the remote districts of the State at least, continued till
Congress, by what are known as the Reconstruction Acts, took into its own hands the rehabilitation
of the seceded States.

In the State of Louisiana a provisional government, chosen by the loyal element, had been put
in operation, as already mentioned, as early as 1864.  This was effected under encouragement
given by President Lincoln, through the medium of a Constitutional convention, which met at
New Orleans in April, 1864, and adjourned in July.  The constitution then agreed upon was submitted
to the people, and in September, 1864, was ratified by a vote of the few loyal residents of
the State.

The government provided under this constitution being looked upon as provisional merely, was
never recognized by Congress, and in 1865 the returned Confederates, restored to citizenship
by the President's amnesty proclamation, soon got control of almost all the State.  The Legislature
was in their hands, as well as most of the State and municipal offices; so, when the President,
on the 20th of August, 1866, by proclamation, extended his previous instructions regarding
civil affairs in Texas so as to have them apply to all the seceded States, there at once began
in Louisiana a system of discriminative legislation directed against the freedmen, that led
to flagrant wrongs in the enforcement of labor contracts, and in the remote parishes to numbers
of outrages and murders.

To remedy this deplorable condition of things, it was proposed, by those who had established
the government of 1864, to remodel the constitution of the State; and they sought to do this
by reassembling the convention, that body before its adjournment having provided for reconvening
under certain conditions, in obedience to the call of its president.  Therefore, early in the
summer of 1866, many members of this convention met in conference at New Orleans, and decided
that a necessity existed for reconvening the delegates, and a proclamation was issued accordingly
by B. K. Howell, President-pro-tempore.

Mayor John T.  Monroe and the other officials of New Orleans looked upon this proposed action
as revolutionary, and by the time the convention assembled (July 30), such bitterness of feeling
prevailed that efforts were made by the mayor and city police to suppress the meeting.  A bloody
riot followed, resulting, in the killing and wounding of about a hundred and sixty persons.

I happened to be absent from the city at the time, returning from Texas, where I had been called
by affairs on the Rio Grande.  On my way up from the mouth of the Mississippi I was met on
the night of July 30 by one of my staff, who reported what had occurred, giving the details
of the massacre--no milder term is fitting--and informing me that, to prevent further slaughter,
General Baird, the senior military officer present, had assumed control of the municipal government. But
our intelligence is not stopped by this. By a simple sic jubeo it posits a disorder which is
an "absence of order."

In so doing it thinks a word or a set of words, nothing more.

If it seeks to attach an idea to the word, it finds that disorder
may indeed be the negation of order, but that this negation is then
the implicit affirmation of the presence of the opposite order, which
we shut our eyes to because it does not interest us, or which we evade
by denying the second order in its turn--that is, at bottom, by re-establishing
the first.

How can we speak, then, of an incoherent diversity which an understanding organizes? It is no use
for us to say that no one supposes this incoherence to be realized or realizable: when we speak
of it, we believe we are thinking of it; now, in analyzing the idea actually present, we find, as
we said before, only the disappointment of the mind confronted with an order that does not interest
it, or a swaying of the mind between two kinds of order, or, finally, the idea pure and simple of
the empty word that we have created by joining a negative prefix to a word which itself signifies
something. But it is this analysis that we neglect to make. We omit it, precisely because
it does not occur to us to distinguish two kinds of order that are irreducible to one another.

We
said, indeed, that all order necessarily appears as contingent. If there are two kinds of order, this
contingency of order is explained: one of the forms is contingent in relation to the other.
Where I find the geometrical order, the vital was possible; where the order is vital, it might have
been geometrical. But suppose that the order is everywhere of the same kind, and simply admits of
degrees which go from the geometrical to the vital: if a determinate order still appears to
me to be contingent, and can no longer be so by relation to an order of another kind, I shall necessarily
believe that the order is contingent by relation to an absence of
itself, that is to say by relation to a state of things "in which
there is no order at all."

And this state of things I shall believe that I am thinking of, because
it is implied, it seems, in the very contingency of order, which is
an unquestionable fact.

 Div. of the Gulf, "New Orleans, La.

"Continue to enforce martial law, so far as may be necessary to preserve the peace; and do
not allow any of the civil authorities to act, if you deem such action dangerous to the public
safety.  Lose no time in investigating and reporting the causes that led to the riot, and the
facts which occurred.

"U. S. GRANT, "Lieutenant-General."

In obedience to the President's directions, My report of August 1 was followed by another,
more in detail, which I give in full, since it tells the whole story of the riot:

"HEADQUARTERS MILITARY DIVISION OF THE GULF, "NEW ORLEANS, LA., August 6, 1866.

"His EXCELLENCY ANDREW JOHNSON, "President United States

"I have the honor to make the following reply to your despatch of August 4.  A very large number
of colored people marched in procession on Friday night, July twenty-seven (27), and were addressed
from the steps of the City Hall by Dr. Dostie, ex-Governor Hahn, and others.  The speech of
Dostie was intemperate in language and sentiment.  The speeches of the others, so far as I
can learn, were characterized by moderation.  I have not given you the words of Dostie's speech,
as the version published was denied; but from what I have learned of the man, I believe they
were intemperate.

"The convention assembled at twelve (12) M.  on the thirtieth (30), the timid members absenting
themselves because the tone of the general public was ominous of trouble.  I think there were
about twenty-six (26) members present.  In front of the Mechanics Institute, where the meeting
was held, there were assembled some colored men, women, and children, perhaps eighteen (18)
or twenty (20), and in the Institute a number of colored men, probably one hundred and fifty
(150).  Among those outside and inside there might have been a pistol in the possession of
every tenth (10) man.

"About one (1) p. m.  a procession of say from sixty (60) to one hundred and thirty (130) colored
men marched up Burgundy Street and across Canal Street toward the convention, carrying an American
flag. These men had about one pistol to every ten men, and canes and clubs in addition.  While
crossing Canal Street a row occurred.  There were many spectators on the street, and their
manner and tone toward the procession unfriendly.  A shot was fired, by whom I am not able
to state, but believe it to have been by a policeman, or some colored man in the procession.
This led to other shots and a rush after the procession.  On arrival at the front of the Institute
there was some throwing of brickbats by both sides.  The police, who had been held well in
hand, were vigorously marched to the scene of disorder.  The procession entered the Institute
with the flag, about six (6) or eight (8) remaining outside.  A row occurred between a policeman
and one of these colored men, and a shot was again fired by one of the parties, which led to
an indiscriminate fire on the building through the windows by the policemen.  This had been
going on for a short time, when a white flag was displayed from the windows of the Institute,
whereupon the firing ceased, and the police rushed into the building.

"From the testimony of wounded men, and others who were inside the building, the policemen
opened an indiscriminate fire upon the audience until they had emptied their revolvers, when
they retired, and those inside barricaded the doors.  The door was broken in, and the firing
again commenced, when many of the colored and white people either escaped throughout the door
or were passed out by the policemen inside; but as they came out the policemen who formed the
circle nearest the building fired upon them, and they were again fired upon by the citizens
that formed the outer circle.  Many of those wounded and taken prisoners, and others who were
prisoners and not wounded, were fired upon by their captors and by citizens.  The wounded were
stabbed while lying on the ground, and their heads beaten with brickbats.  In the yard of the
building, whither some of the colored men had escaped and partially secreted themselves, they
were fired upon and killed or wounded by policemen.  Some were killed and wounded several squares
from the scene.  Members of the convention were wounded by the police while in their hands
as prisoners, some of them mortally.

"The immediate cause of this terrible affair was the assemblage of this Convention; the remote
cause was the bitter and antagonistic feeling which has been growing in this community since
the advent of the present Mayor, who, in the organization of his police force, selected many
desperate men, and some of them known murderers. People of clear views were overawed by want
of confidence in the Mayor, and fear of the thugs, many of which he had selected for his police
force.  I have frequently been spoken to by prominent citizens on this subject, and have heard
them express fear, and want of confidence in Mayor Monroe.  Ever since the intimation of this
last convention movement I must condemn the course of several of the city papers for supporting,
by their articles, the bitter feeling of bad men.  As to the merciless manner in which the
convention was broken up, I feel obliged to confess strong repugnance.

"It is useless to disguise the hostility that exists on the part of a great many here toward
Northern men, and this unfortunate affair has so precipitated matters that there is now a test
of what shall be the status of Northern men--whether they can live here without being in constant
dread or not, whether they can be protected in life and property, and have justice in the courts.
If this matter is permitted to pass over without a thorough and determined prosecution of those
engaged in it, we may look out for frequent scenes of the same kind, not only here, but in
other places.  No steps have as yet been taken by the civil authorities to arrest citizens
who were engaged in this massacre, or policemen who perpetrated such cruelties.  The members
of the convention have been indicted by the grand jury, and many of them arrested and held
to bail.  As to whether the civil authorities can mete out ample justice to the guilty parties
on both sides, I must say it is my opinion, unequivocally, that they cannot.  Judge Abell,
whose course I have closely watched for nearly a year, I now consider one of the most dangerous
men that we have here to the peace and quiet of the city. The leading men of the convention--King,
Cutler, Hahn, and others --have been political agitators, and are bad men.  I regret to say
that the course of Governor Wells has been vacillating, and that during the late trouble he
has shown very little of the man.

"P. H. SHERIDAN, "Major-General Commanding."

Subsequently a military commission investigated the subject of the riot, taking a great deal
of testimony.  The commission substantially confirmed the conclusions given in my despatches,
and still later there was an investigation by a select committee of the House of Representatives,
of which the Honorables Samuel Shellabarger, of Ohio, H. L. Elliot, of Massachusetts, and B.
M. Boyer, of Pennsylvania, were the members.  The majority report of the committee also corroborated,
in all essentials, my reports of the distressing occurrence.  The committee likewise called
attention to a violent speech made by Mr. Johnson at St. Louis in September, 1866, charging
the origin of the riot to Congress, and went on to say of the speech that "it was an unwarranted
and unjust expression of hostile feeling, without pretext or foundation in fact."  A list of
the killed and wounded was embraced in the committee's report, and among other conclusions
reached were the following: "That the meeting of July 30 was a meeting of quiet citizens, who
came together without arms and with intent peaceably to discuss questions of public concern....
There has been no occasion during our National history when a riot has occurred so destitute
of justifiable cause, resulting in a massacre so inhuman and fiend-like, as that which took
place at New Orleans on the 30th of July last.

The statement is also made, that, "He [the President] knew that 'rebels' and 'thugs' and disloyal
men had controlled the election of Mayor Monroe, and that such men composed chiefly his police
force."

The committee held that no legal government existed in Louisiana, and recommended the temporary
establishment of a provisional government therein; the report concluding that "in the meantime
the safety of all Union men within the State demands that such government be formed for their
protection, for the well being of the nation and the permanent peace of the Republic."

The New Orleans riot agitated the whole country, and the official and other reports served
to intensify and concentrate the opposition to President Johnson's policy of reconstruction,
a policy resting exclusively on and inspired solely by the executive authority--for it was
made plain, by his language and his acts, that he was seeking to rehabilitate the seceded States
under conditions differing not a whit from those existing before the rebellion; that is to
say, without the slightest constitutional provision regarding the status of the emancipated
slaves, and with no assurances of protection for men who had remained loyal in the war.

SCHUYLER COLFAX, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

LAFAYETTE S. FOSTER, President of the Senate pro tempore.

SCHUYLER COLFAX, Speaker of the House of Representatives.

B. F. WADE, President of the Senate pro tempore.

CHAPTER XI.

PASSAGE OF THE RECONSTRUCTION ACT OVER THE PRESIDENT'S VETO--PLACED IN COMMAND OF THE FIFTH
MILITARY DISTRICT--REMOVING OFFICERS--MY REASONS FOR SUCH ACTION--AFFAIRS IN LOUISIANA AND
TEXAS--REMOVAL OF GOVERNOR WELLS--REVISION OF THE JURY LISTS--RELIEVED FROM THE COMMAND OF
THE FIFTH MILITARY DISTRICT.

The first of the Reconstruction laws was passed March 2, 1867, and though vetoed by the President,
such was the unanimity of loyal sentiment and the urgency demanding the measure, that the bill
became a law over the veto the day the President returned it to Congress. March the 11th this
law was published in General Orders No. 10, from the Headquarters of the Army, the same order
assigning certain officers to take charge of the five military districts into which the States
lately in rebellion were subdivided, I being announced as the commander of the Fifth Military
District, which embraced Louisiana and Texas, a territory that had formed the main portion
of my command since the close of the war.

Between the date of the Act and that of my assignment, the Louisiana Legislature, then in special
session, had rejected a proposed repeal of an Act it had previously passed providing for an
election of certain municipal officers in New Orleans.  This election was set for March 11,
but the mayor and the chief of police, together with General Mower, commanding the troops in
the city, having expressed to me personally their fears that the public peace would be disturbed
by the election, I, in this emergency, though not yet assigned to the district, assuming the
authority which the Act conferred on district commanders, declared that the election should
not take place; that no polls should be opened on the day fixed; and that the whole matter
would stand postponed till the district commander should be appointed, or special instructions
be had.  This, my first official act under the Reconstruction laws, was rendered necessary
by the course of a body of obstructionists, who had already begun to give unequivocal indications
of their intention to ignore the laws of Congress.

A copy of the order embodying the Reconstruction law, together with my assignment, having reached
me a few days after, I regularly assumed control of the Fifth Military District on March 19,
by an order wherein I declared the State and municipal governments of the district to be provisional
only, and, under the provisions of the sixth section of the Act, subject to be controlled,
modified, superseded, or abolished.  I also announced that no removals from office would be
made unless the incumbents failed to carry out the provisions of the law or impeded reorganization,
or unless willful delays should necessitate a change, and added: "Pending the reorganization,
it is, desirable and intended to create as little disturbance in the machinery of the various
branches of the provisional governments as possible, consistent with the law of Congress and
its successful execution, but this condition is dependent upon the disposition shown by the
people, and upon the length of time required for reorganization."

Under these limitations Louisiana and Texas retained their former designations as military
districts, the officers in command exercising their military powers as heretofore.  In addition,
these officers were to carry out in their respective commands all provisions of the law except
those specially requiring the action of the district commander, and in cases of removals from
and appointment to office.

In the course of legislation the first Reconstruction act, as I have heretofore noted, had
been vetoed.  On the very day of the veto, however, despite the President's adverse action,
it passed each House of Congress by such an overwhelming majority as not only to give it the
effect of law, but to prove clearly that the plan of reconstruction presented was, beyond question,
the policy endorsed by the people of the country.  It was, therefore, my determination to see
to the law's zealous execution in my district, though I felt certain that the President would
endeavor to embarrass me by every means in his power, not only on account of his pronounced
personal hostility, but also because of his determination not to execute but to obstruct the
measures enacted by Congress.

Having come to this conclusion, I laid down, as a rule for my guidance, the principle of non-interference
with the provisional State governments, and though many appeals were made to have me rescind
rulings of the courts, or interpose to forestall some presupposed action to be taken by them,
my invariable reply was that I would not take cognizance of such matters, except in cases of
absolute necessity.  The same policy was announced also in reference to municipal affairs throughout
the district, so long as the action of the local officers did not conflict with the law.

In a very short time, however, I was obliged to interfere in municipal matters in New Orleans,
for it had become clearly apparent that several of the officials were, both by acts of omission
and commission, ignoring the law, so on the 27th of March I removed from office the Mayor,
John T.  Monroe; the Judge of the First District Court, E. Abell; and the Attorney-General
of the State, Andrew S. Herron; at the same time appointing to the respective offices thus
vacated Edward Heath, W. W. Howe, and B. L. Lynch.  The officials thus removed had taken upon
themselves from the start to pronounce the Reconstruction acts unconstitutional, and to advise
such a course of obstruction that I found it necessary at an early dav to replace them by men
in sympathy with the law, in order to make plain my determination to have its provisions enforced.
The President at once made inquiry, through General Grant, for the cause of the removal, and
I replied:

"HEADQUARTERS FIFTH MILITARY DISTRICT, "New Orleans, La., April 19, 1867.

"GENERAL: On the 27th day of March last I removed from office Judge E. Abell, of the Criminal
Court of New Orleans; Andrew S. Herron, Attorney-General of the State of Louisiana; and John
T. Monroe, Mayor of the City of New Orleans.  These removals were made under the powers granted
me in what is usually termed the 'military bill,' passed March 2, 1867, by the Congress of
the United States.

"I did not deem it necessary to give any reason for the removal of these men, especially after
the investigations made by the military board on the massacre Of July 30, 1866, and the report
of the congressional committee on the same massacre; but as some inquiry has been made for
the cause of removal, I would respectfully state as follows:

"The court over which judge Abell presided is the only criminal court in the city of New Orleans,
and for a period of at least nine months previous to the riot Of July 30 he had been educating
a large portion of the community to the perpetration of this outrage, by almost promising no
prosecution in his court against the offenders, in case such an event occurred.  The records
of his court will show that he fulfilled his promise, as not one of the guilty has been prosecuted.

"In reference to Andrew J. Herron, Attorney-General of the State of Louisiana, I considered
it his duty to indict these men before this criminal court.  This he failed to do, but went
so far as to attempt to impose on the good sense of the whole nation by indicting the victims
of the riot instead of the rioters; in other words, making the innocent guilty and the guilty
innocent.  He was therefore, in my belief, an able coadjutor with judge Abell in bringing on
the massacre of July 30.

"Mayor Monroe controlled the element engaged in this riot, and when backed by an attorney-general
who would not prosecute the guilty, and a judge who advised the grand jury to find the innocent
guilty and let the murderers go free, felt secure in engaging his police force in the riot
and massacre.

"With these three men exercising a large influence over the worst elements of the population
of this city, giving to those elements an immunity for riot and bloodshed, the general-in-chief
will see how insecurely I felt in letting them occupy their respective positions in the troubles
which might occur in registration and voting in the reorganization of this State.  Many of
these persons were active and open opponents of mine, while others were spies, doing their
work so secretly and quickly that sometimes Mr. Johnson knew of my official acts before I could
report them to General Grant.

The supplemental Reconstruction act which defined the method of reconstruction became a law
despite the President's veto on March 23. This was a curative act, authorizing elections and
prescribing methods of registration.  I also announced that until elections were held in accordance
with these acts, the law of the Legislature of the State providing for the holding over of
those persons whose terms of office otherwise would have expired, would govern in all cases
excepting only those special ones in which I myself might take action.  There was one parish,
Livingston, which this order did no reach in time to prevent the election previously ordered
there, and which therefore took place, but by a supplemental order this election was declare
null and void.

In April.  I began the work of administering the Supplemental Law, which, under  certain condition
of eligibility, required a registration of the voter of the State, for the purpose of electing
delegate to a Constitutional convention. It was there, but neutralized by the action which fulfilled
and thereby filled the representation. The obstacle creates nothing positive; it simply makes
a void, removes a stopper. This inadequacy of act to representation
is precisely what we here call consciousness.  Before
announcing these boards, I had asked to be advised definitely as to what persons were disfranchised
by the law, and was directed by General Grant to act upon my own interpretation of it, pending
an opinion expected shortly from the Attorney-General--Mr. Henry Stanbery--so, for the guidance
of the boards, I gave the following instructions:

"HEADQUARTERS FIFTH MILITARY DISTRICT. "New Orleans, La., April 10, 1867.

"Special Orders, No. 15.

"The four municipal districts of the City of New Orleans and the Parish of Orleans, right bank
(Algiers), will each constitute a Registration district.  Election precincts will remain as
at present constituted.

"....Each member of the Board of Registers, before commencing his duties, will file in the
office of the Assistant-Inspector-General at these headquarters, the oath required in the sixth
section of the Act referred to, and be governed in the execution of his duty by the provisions
of the first section of that Act, faithfully administering the oath therein prescribed to each
person registered.

"Boards of Registers will immediately select suitable offices within their respective districts,
having reference to convenience and facility of registration, and will enter upon their duties
on the day designated. And a tendency achieves all that it aims at only if it is not thwarted
by another tendency. How, then, could this occur in the domain of
life, where, as we shall show, the interaction of antagonistic tendencies
is always implied?  Office-hours for registration
will be from 8 o'clock till 12 A. M., and from 4 till 7 P. M.

"When elections are ordered, the Board of Registers for each district will designate the number
of polls and the places where they shall be opened in the election precincts within its district,
appoint the commissioners and other officers necessary for properly conducting the elections,
and will superintend the same.

"They will also receive from the commissioners of elections of the different precincts the
result of the vote, consolidate the same, and forward it to the commanding general.

"Registers and all officers connected with elections will be held to a rigid accountability
and will be subject to trial by military commission for fraud, or unlawful or improper conduct
in the performance of their duties.  Their rate of compensation and manner of payment will
be in accordance with the provisions of sections six and seven of the supplemental act.

"Pending the decision of the Attorney-General of the United States on the question as to who
are disfranchised by law, registers will give the most rigid interpretation to the law, and
exclude from registration every person about whose right to vote there may be a doubt.  Any
person so excluded who may, under the decision of the Attorney-General, be entitled to vote,
shall be permitted to register after that decision is received, due notice of which will be given.

"By command of Major-General P. H.